# 110. Example Time & INNER JOIN vs LEFT JOIN

## INNER JOIN cities and addresses

```sql
SELECT c.name AS city_name, a.street
FROM cities as c
INNER JOIN addresses AS a ON c.id = a.city_id;
```

With this query we will get all the cities that have an address, and vice versa, so we get all the matching records, between the two tables. If we have 2 addresses for the same city, our result set would contain this city 2 times. This happens because when joining data (with `INNER JOIN` and `LEFT JOIN`), the result set contains one row per relation.

## LEFT JOIN cities and addresses

```sql
SELECT c.name AS city_name, a.street
FROM cities as c
LEFT JOIN addresses AS a ON c.id = a.city_id;
```

With this query we would get all the cities, even those that do not have an address associated with them. And as in the above query, we might have duplicate cities if we have a city that points to more that one address.

## LEFT JOIN cities and addresses and INNER JOIN with users

```sql
SELECT c.name AS city_name, a.street
FROM cities as c
LEFT JOIN addresses AS a ON c.id = a.city_id
INNER JOIN users AS u ON a.id = u.address_id;
```

In this query we are performing an `ÌNNER JOIN` of the users table, through the addresses table, on the result set we have from **`LEFT JOIN` cities and addresses**. The final result set will only show cities where we have at least a user, and if there is a more than one user in a city, this city would apear in teh result set as many times as the user in it.

## LEFT JOIN cities and addresses and LEFT JOIN with users

```sql
SELECT c.name AS city_name, a.street
FROM cities as c
LEFT JOIN addresses AS a ON c.id = a.city_id
LEFT JOIN users AS u ON a.id = u.address_id;
```

With this query we will get all the cities eeven thoses that do not have an address or users relation.

_View slides [32 to 39](./slides/slides.pdf) for more details._

_View sql file [08-more-joins](./sql/08-more-joins.sql) for more details._
